in any particular direction, I mean, not
petroleum or not. I mean, it's an open ballgame.
Well, no, but that's just one. We've got about
seven centers out there. And one of the most
important centers that we started, Joe and I
started back in 1973, was the Center for Growth
Studies, which relates to what's happening to all
of us from the standpoint of pressure on the
population, environmental things. That's
everything you've been talking about. Right. And
so therefore, I think it fits. And Joe put it right
that we've got to change the name. came up the other
day. I don't like to change the name, because we
looked at the name, and we finally arrived, and we
had Alternative to the Growth, and we had
Alternative to the Growth Second Session, and we
had, then we hit on the name, the Nature of
Sustainable Societies. That's what we're trying
to seek, the Nature of Sustainable Societies.
What is it? You can't make 5 billion people work.
How are you going to make 10 billion people work?
How's it going to work? How do we get policies to
make it work? I'm just telling you. Yeah, I know.
Very serious. So, but that does, see, the Center
for Growth Studies doesn't say that. It ought to be
the Center for Sustainable Society Studies. I
don't know. You see what I'm talking about? God, I
hate to change that one more time. I hate to change
it. It started out as a women's conference. I know.
But think about it. Am I right? George Brock
brought that up the other day. I would agree. We've
never had a really good name. No. Well, think about
it. You and I have worked on things since 1973. But
see, we've got seven centers out there. We've got
the Accelerator Center, which Peter McIntyre was
involved in. We've got the supercomputer. We've
got... laser center. We've got seven centers
there, so it does. And we've got one on energy,
geotechnology, that's doing real good work. And
we're trying to get a, what we call a clearinghouse
of research that the major company would
participate with us and the university and DOE.
That's important for this reason. Houston did all
the, you know, we cover the world with it. It's all
developed in this part of the country. Our
offshore drilling, our seismic work, everything
was developed in this part of the country here,
Dallas, Fort Worth, Houston. A little bit to
Oklahoma. I guess there really is no comparable.
There's nothing comparable. We're going to lose
now. This nation will lose now another 25 years if
we don't really get reignited again. And we
really, we're not. So we're working on that.
That'll be one of the geotechnology functions to
try to well the private sector to the university to
the government sector. And with the talent you
have in this region, to stay ahead of research in
the world, exploration production research,
and, of course, petrochemicals, too. I'm not
worried about petrochemicals, but it couldn't go
out. But the universe is so jealous. They want to do
everything right there in a little thing, and
that's fine. It's very difficult to work with
them. I'm going to tell you, you know about it
better than I do. But we're making progress. It's
very tough and pitiful sometimes. You're very
patient. You have to have perseverance to work
with the universities. But anyway, that gives you
the overall thing, but what we'll do, because we
can talk some more about a piece of this thing. And
what do you see as growth projections are very
strong out in the Woodlands area right now, for
example? I think so. And what is this going to do to
your... What interests me is to really build the
technology center really to the critical mass, I
think, that this region deserves, including
improving the status of the universities. I could
foresee... joint appointments with the private
sector that works with us and the universities to
get the top talent, certainly in petroleum
engineering and geology, which we have some, but
not the top. Are you getting cooperation in this?
Very difficult because most people think they've
got enough people to do what I'm talking about
doing. Sure. I would say this in geophysics, you
mentioned it several times, I think we've got some
good people in the four universities, but not what
I think we ought to have. And I think the private
sector would help support it. You see, the private
sector don't want us in it because they stay ahead
of us that way. But in geophysics, I think that we
can work on that. The private sector really
doesn't know. The major companies, the players
like we have, we don't have research in
exploration production. He's comparing the
majors with the independents. You see, the
private sector majors don't want independents
doing research. They stay ahead of us three years
and they don't want us to catch up. Well, I want to
catch up. So we're working with the Guest Research
Institute now. They just gave us a grant down
there. And universities want all that research in
their house. In their house, yeah. So you're
hearing a very difficult... Except that they
can't get the private sector to relate to them as
well as they should. Right here is where the action
is. See, if we had a research clearinghouse at the
private sector that was driven by the private
sector and the university talent was brought into
it, but the research is driven by the private
sector, they're not going to give Right now, you
might start at $15 to $20 million in that type of
program. But I'd say in five years, you could build
it with energy the way the problem's going to be.
You could build up to a $500 million program. It
would be enormously important for the university
to participate with us. And the private sector
ought to participate. Because then, right now,
I'll give you a good example that'll blow your
mind. In clean coal research out of the Department
of Energy, there's now $750 million a year going.
And non-defense nuclear, $2 billion a year. in oil
and gas research at $34 million a year. Now why? Is
that right? That's all. Isn't that shocking? That
is shocking. I finally got him to admit. I said, you
know why? Because your major companies stop at all
times. You're not going to stop the other two. Once
you wake up and get a share and you do the research,
they put half the money in. So I'm making some
progress. That's what I'll be doing. Because if
you don't make a major impact in 15, 20 years, if you
don't get a half billion dollar project in five
years, you're not going to do any good. But then in
the university, you could have joint tenure. You
could have them involved. You could have the
private sector involved. But they don't trust the
university or DOE to do a half a billion dollar
research project. No major companies. So they'll
never get it. Now, that doesn't stop them from
doing the most basic work that they should do. But
when you're trying to get the stuff that goes to the
private sector, you better have the private
sector involved. Now, that's what I'm trying to
convince them, and it ought to be in Houston. Do you
think there's been much real transfusion, let's
say, of new technology into the petroleum
industry in the last decade or so? Yeah, I think
there's some. I think there's some. But I think we
find by these venture capital that we have put
together, the most difficult thing is to get
anything out of the universities that makes
sense. Now, I think that if we could help them
devise a program, we could help them make sense.
Well, are you telling me in a way that the American
petroleum industry is in very much the same
situation They, let's say, as the American iron
and steel industry was 50 years ago. Yeah, I can say
the major presence were Neanderthals. Yeah, and
that's what happened to iron and steel. It's
obvious from their PR relation. They should have
had Joe on their staff. We got a good PR thanks to Joe
and his effort the last 20 years. They got a
horrible PR. Why? When they didn't have enough
perception that when the gas oil price went up to
stop many gas prices as much as they could from
going up and let people know what they're trying to
do, they're stupid. Now we're going to have three
hearings on gouging and none on what we're going to
do about sovereign energy. Let me just tell you. So
I would say that why I'm so adamant on that
research, and I think they're wrong,
It's a billion-dollar research on exploration
and production research. That's, of course, the
exploration end. So I put a simple pencil to it. The
gross revenues they get out of production,
exploration production, is $150 billion. Now, to
spend only a billion, there's something wrong
with them. You see what I'm talking about? Yep.
They ought to be spending $4 or $5 billion a year, at
least. him spend seven percent of the gross income
etc they've been in the dark ages too long now they
think they got all the bases covered yeah that does
sound like iron and steel yeah really i hadn't even
thought about that i've never made that
connection yet they've been so smart for the last
30 40 years mainly because they're chased by a 10
000 independence they've covered the world then
they won't let us produce it but i think that
they're losing out in this country yeah and i think
that we've got to fire them up it ought to be in
houston so that's where used to advance research
and then you're working our problem is
universities oh no i want it over here and fisher
said he wants it in austin and ufa says i want over
here you know sure so i've got to kind of be uh
working with them make them all say we're going to
all benefit by it let's see what we can do well i know
it's silly to ask you if you're optimistic because
obviously you are but what do you see as the next
great hurdle or breakthrough or obstacle that
you've got to surmount in terms of developing that
complex. You mean in the woodlands? In the
woodlands. I think it's important that the
commercial and the high tech thing begins to
become as effective and really as aggressive as
we're doing in the residential. Very good. Yes.
But right now, because of Houston's problems, and
I'd say that the west side beat us with a draw on the
energy corridor. We got some out there, but not as
much as the west side. But we got this airport. And
there's no way to expand at any other airport. So
we're going to be riding a driver. We've got a toll
road, as you know. Yeah, I use it every week almost.
And it didn't end up with the Woodlands by
accident. A lot of work went by. How about rail, the
monorail or whatever? Working on rail is a
possibility. We got one like Kit Lanier. I've done
it before. They spent $65 million. He was the head
of the MTA here for a while. I kid him. I said, you
know, you spent $65 million. I've only spent six
rounds down. I've got a train going to Dallas right
now. Why do I have them? You've got something
going. However, we think that rail could be a
possibility to the women and further out. So I
think that, you know, those are the things that get
along because you need to get people into the big
city and have all the downtown be a main downtown
and have all the cultural centers or most of it
here, et cetera, et cetera, legal professional.
We have to be part of the whole. And we should
develop. They should never put the summit out
there where they did. The summit should be in here.
This area should be really the Brown Center. You
still have to have that hub here. But then you have
to have these employment areas and commercial
areas and nodes around. And then where you all hold
one of the hope. Because if you're a separate
community out there, it won't work. And when you
economically integrate that community, you
still anticipate that a substantial core of that
group actually will come downtown. In other
words, this is the mixing bowl. Well, I think in
some functions they should come downtown, if you
have good transit. How do you compare,
incidentally, the Dallas economic region to
Houston? Dallas has more defense, and they're
aggressive. They've got a good bunch of people
working in Dallas, Perot and all that bunch. But
see, Dallas made a mistake not taking advantage of
the exterritorial jurisdictions. They got a lot
of independent subdivisions around Dallas.
Terribly independent, yeah. They were in
trouble. They were in trouble because of Plano, et
cetera, et cetera, et cetera. So Dallas really
made a mistake not doing what we're trying to do. I
had to fight Kathy Whitmire, not fight her, but
first month in office. I told her, I need that rail
from the north to get to the new airport. How are you
going to get to the airport in five years, Kathy?
You're building a billion-hour airport and you
can't get there. That's right. She wouldn't do it.
She wouldn't do it the whole world. I said, the
second thing is you came on for the city and you came
on the premise that she would have Clear Lake City
DNX from Houston. She's so thankful that she
didn't get it done. I argued with her, and she was
still going to try to do it, and we got it beat.
Because if Clear Lake City and NASA had been DNXed
from Houston, it would have been a divorce. That's
an example I'm using for Kathy. She won't admit it
now, but she was dead against it. She wanted DNXed.
That was what she wrote right on the platform. I
said, those are two things you're really wrong,
Captain. She won't listen. She listens now. She's
really brightened. She made a hell of a plea for
Japan's service today, talking about it at the
Houston Partnership meeting. She's really
gotten where she worked for the private sector,
but she was so suspicious of them at the beginning
that she thought it was just all self-interest.
But she's the bright gal. She's done a good job.
What's happening in Texas? I think the war is going
to make Texas much better. I think the price is not
going to go back to $10 or $12 again for long ever, I
don't think. For the next 10 years, I think that
it's bad for the nation, and I think that our
economy should be better, particularly Houston.
And we'll just see when gas prices go low. This one
gas price is going. That's the thing it was, but now
gas prices are low. But the bubble on coal-seamed
gas bothers me a little bit. I'm not so sure. Say
that again. Coal-seamed gas is coming in strong.
And it's a concern as to whether the bubble's going
to be gone this winter for the normal winter or not.
I think it will be. But the price of gas will go up
anyway because oil is going to go up. I was serious
when I first walked in. Is there a relationship?
For example, when you started the Woodlands, the
real housing development, we had the OPEC embargo
and so forth. And you had a tough time selling,
probably. Very tough time. Do you see that
happening again? The interest rates went up to
14%, 15%. And everything, inflation got out of
control. It really hurt us. That was the key to it.
That hurt us. The inflation got out of control. It
may not get out of control, but it might get out of
control. So if prices can go up and interest rates
stay down, you're fixed. It came in 35% over
budget, and that hurt us. Yeah. And that's because
inflation just gnawed us to pieces. Also, I think
that the fact that we're going so fast, we probably
should have figured out how to make it more
palatable. Mm-hmm. But, Henry, you're going to be
allowed to come back. All right. I don't know what
your schedule is, but I don't know when it's here.
Yeah, well, we'll have more time to talk about it in
the future. Okay, good. We'll stop right here.
We'll stop right here and we'll pick it up. Come
back. I really appreciate it. Thank you. That's
been a good, nice, good, constructive overview.
Thank you. Joe learned a lot today.